[Silence.]
[Music.]
Well, howdy friends, how y'all?
Esther, here it is again, time for your old wood rider, Jelly Elliot and Three Knotheads.
Sitting here under the old pine tree, we'll be with you for a little while here, and we'd like to have you listen.
Just stay tuned right there where you are.
Now, exactly the setting.
Just stay right there, because we're going to play a few tunes here, and we want you to listen.
We don't want you to miss a thing, so mother and father and brother and sister and little children and all you little fellas out there,
drag up a chair or two, just gather around, but we're going to do something or say something here that you will want to hear, so don't miss out on nothing.
And here's something that you'll all want to hear.
It's Robert with his fiddle doing Sally Goodin.
[Music.]
Well, Lord, Robert, you cut it off too short.
I was just fixing to sing there.
Excuse me, friends.
I mean, I was just about to get in the mood to sing, and Robert quit fiddling.
Robert, you ought to be ashamed of yourself.
I declared sadly good.
Friends, we hope you enjoyed that tune.
Now, friends, in every section of the country, it's the small patches of wood, the small woodlands, that count.
Now, we depend on that a whole lot today.
You'll just be surprised at how much we do depend on it.
And we will be more and more in the future.
It's the little patches that counts, the 40, 60, 120-acre spots of timber that the farmers and other small landowners have in timber.
It don't necessarily have to be a farmer.
It could be a banker, a filling station operator.
Most anybody can own small patches of timber, and that's the ones that count.
Now, we sure need to keep these growing and producing.
The key to this whole business of lumber and other forest products, friends, we all need is in the hands of folks just like you and me who have
these little small patches of wood that you might have a patch of wood there that you think, well, I'll just keep that small patch down there for firewood.
Well, it's more than that, friends.
Did you ever stop to think there's about four and a quarter million of us small timberland owners?
Well, that's right, four and a quarter million.
Now, think of that.
You might say to yourself, well, I'm just a drop in a bucket.
That's right, you're a drop in a bucket.
But you take all us drops and put us together, and it's a bucket full.
Now, friends, we just got to do everything we can to keep the fire out of these small woodlands.
And ask the local forester.
Now, there you are.
There's a point right there, friends, the local forester.
Now, you take these big sawmill concerns.
They have millions of dollars tied up in a big sawmill.
Now, they're going to see that that sawmill keeps going.
So you know what they do?
They got their own forestry boys.
They got men that know what they're doing, just like our local forestry boys.
Go out there and select the timber that these fellas come through there with a crosscut saw and cut it down.
That's what they do.
Now, that's where your local forestry boy comes in.
That's where he's provided there for you.
That's what he's there for, to help you to select this timber and keep it growing.
So all you got to do is call on him.
He'll be glad to help you.
Now, if you go to stop your land from washing off or something, you don't go to the banker to find out how to do it, do you?
No, you go to the soil erosion man, and he'll come out there and survey that thing off and show you right where you need a big bank throwed up to keep it from washing.
Well, the local forestry boy is the same thing.
He'll come out and help you select that timber.
So call on him.
That's what he's there for.
Friends, don't forget, there's four and a quarter million of us small patch timber owners, and we just got to keep the fire out.
That's all there is to it.
So I want you to help me.
Now, we can make money out of it if, and that if is a mighty big word.
It's a mighty big word just to have two letters in it, if.
If the land is kept free from fire and handled,
to produce the amount of timber it should.
I'm going to tell you more about this, but first I want to play a tune here.
Let's see, I believe Robert's going to play this first one.
Oh, Charlie's going to sing.
Oh, this is going to be good, friends.
I mean, this is going to be, oh, I mean, this is really it.
And Charlie's going to sing.
And here it is, and it's Rock-a-Bye Baby Blues.
Come home in the evening and I'm all tired out.
See, that bed makes me want to shout.
When I lay down with a great big sigh, that's when the baby begins to cry.
I got rock-a-bye baby, rock-a-bye blues.
Well, when I got married, I thought I wanted four.
But one's enough I can't handle no more.
He frets and he cries and he sure gets loud.
I guess like a father I should feel proud.
I got the rock-a-bye baby, rock-a-bye baby blues.
[Music.]
Well, I stumble through the dark, I can't find the light.
What makes you want to cry in the middle of the night?
As mama keeps yelling, stop his crying.
Well, I'm getting a little mad, cause that's what I'm trying.
I got the rock-a-bye baby, rock-a-bye baby blues.
Now he just keeps crying at the top of his voice.
And I gotta get up, cause I got no choice.
As a new father, it seems kind of strange when his mama says, see if he needs a change.
I got the Rock-a-bye Baby, Rock-a-bye Baby Blues.
[Music.]
Well, there's an old saying that's sure out of style.
I'll spare the rod and spoil the child.
Now listen, little fellow, when you get about three, it's gonna be a new day between you and me.
I got the rock-a-bye baby, rock-a-bye baby blues.
Yeah!
Well, my wife said, You said you wanted a bundle of joy
See, you get up now and rock that boy. Feed him milk, don't you get it too hot. You wanted a baby, well, that's what you got.
Rock-a-bye baby, rock-a-bye baby blues. Rock-a-bye baby blues. Thank you, Charlie, thank you.
That's right, get up in the middle of the night, rock the baby. My goodness gracious.
Now, friends, I was talking a few minutes ago about the importance of the small woodlands.
That's the small patches of wood.
You know, I knew a couple one time.
They were friends of mine.
He was a farmer, and he and his wife had a nice place.
And I heard that he'd had an accident.
Well, the whole thing is I felt pretty good over the thing after it turned out like it did.
But the man had had an accident.
He was building a new barn.
And he was putting a roof on, and it fell off and laid himself up.
So I went by to see how he was getting along.
Sure enough, he was.
He was laid up there with a broke leg and falling off this barn.
And he and his wife was having a little argument when I come in, but there wasn't much he could do because he was laying up there flat on his back and didn't feel too good, you know.
But it seemed like that she had...
got a quick price on some timber they had.
They had a 48-acre patch of timber, and I mean it was really nice.
And he had just gone to the expense of building this barn and everything, and cash was kind of low, and they needed quick money.
So she had jumped out there and got a quick price on all of this nice timber on this 48-acre patch of wood.
Well, the old man, he is plenty sore about it.
He just couldn't see it.
All he could picture, you know, of this timber that he'd taken care of and was proud of it, and all he could visualize was all that nice timber cut off of this land, and he just couldn't stand the idea.
So I just stood there kind of back out of the way.
I didn't want to get in the line of fire in any way, and finally I winked at him, and he caught the hint, and I
Kind of give him the wink, you know, and he told his wife, he says, I'll tell you what let's do, honey.
Said, let's just let old Jelly settle this.
Said, let's just let him settle it.
So she agreed.
She said, well, okay, we'll do that then.
So I'm so close to this whole forestry thing, friends.
The first thing I'd done, I just got out there and got ahold of the local forestry boy and he come in.
I went with him and we went down through this 48 acre patch of woods
made a survey of the timber to see what was there and how much of it.
So after we made the survey and figured out what we thought was there, then we called in a timber buyer.
And he come out, and we all three went over the timber, looked it over, made the deal for him, got everything all fixed.
And in the wind-up, friends, those folks got just about double for just some of the timber
that was ready for cutting than the first offer for all of the timber.
I mean, that made me feel good, friends.
It really did.
Now they got the money to keep things going, and they got a lot of nice timber still green and growing.
And now, friends, here's a favorite old fiddle tune.
Robert, to do it on his flower seed fiddle, Take me Back to Tulsa.
[Music.]
Now here is just a little thought for the day that I'd like to leave with you, friends.
Think it over.
Your small woodland will pay double someday if you just handle it right and keep fire away.
Friends, we've enjoyed this little visit with you here under the old pine tree, sitting on a pine knot of picking and singing for you.
We've really enjoyed it.
We hope you've enjoyed it.
We want you to tune us in again.
We're really at heart about this thing, and that's the way we want you to feel about it.
At heart.
We can't do it.
You got to help us do it.
Yes sir, we got to keep that fire out of them woods.
Don't forget friends, this program is made possible and brought to you with the best wishes and compliments of your own State Forest Service
and Uncle Sam's Forest Service through the cooperation of the station that you are now listening to.
Remember friends, only you can prevent forest and woods fires.
[Music.]
[Silence.]